commands_git.md, before:

# Commands from Git

###  I. Basic routine for commiting


That is how I save a snapshot/point in time

```
git add <name of the file>
git commit -m "meaningful msg"
```

### II. How to check the status of my files/directories in my git project

`$ git status` tells you
- master/main
- Untracked files
- see things are happening
- Changes to be committed, changes not staged (developing area, working on it before), Untracked files (= completely new)
- `$ git restore` discards changes in working directory e.g. if you regret about changes you have made, let the changes exit from the stagin area and discard changes

Check if they are uncommitted, unstaged or untracked

```
On branch main
Changes not staged for commit:
  (use "git add <file>..." to update what will be committed)
  (use "git restore <file>..." to discard changes in working directory)
        modified:   Dictionary_git.md

Untracked files:
  (use "git add <file>..." to include in what will be committed)
        vib.png
```

### III. Commiting without -m
If you try `$ git commit` without -m, It might give an error.

Change editor to get it back to vi
`$ git config --global --unset-all core.editor`

If you do `$ git commit` again, you will open the config file via vi editor
- In the opened file, you can add text for the title of the new commit


### IV. At staging area: Add together files that you want to commit together

- git all files `$ git add *`

- git all pdf files `$ git *.pdf`

- `$ git add <pattern>.*`

- `$ git add file1 file2` 


### V. Exercises: Knowing my timeline
A. How can I travel within the timeline to check for differences in my versions? 
- by `$ git diff`, you can compare the differences between the current version and previous version (the last time you committed). 
    - `$ git diff <commit id1> <commit id2>` 
    - The order of the commits matters +/-
    - Show changes between different states	Compare working dir, staged, or commits	Line-by-line file changes
- Or, `$ git show` is similar to `$ git diff` but shows the differences with more details
    - `$ git show <commit id1> <commit id2>`, you will see a merged comparativer version printed

B. How can I see the history of my timeline? 
- by `$ git log` it shows history of commits from HEAD -> main/master (HEAD: the most updated version)
- or `$ git log --abbrev-commit` with abbreviated version of commit ID
- View commit history	Listing commits	Commit metadata (author, message, date)


In summary:

- git log is for viewing commit history.
- git diff is for viewing file differences.
- git show is for inspecting a specific commit or object.

### VI. Linking the local repository to remote repository

1. Create a bridge and then check the status of the current Git
```
$ git remote add origin git@github.com:seoyeonoh12/my_git_tutorial.git
$ git status
```
Expected output:
```
On branch main
nothing to commit, working tree clean
```
2. `$ git push`: sending the local repos. to remote repos. 
If you "push" for the first time, it will give an error with the following message:
```
fatal: The current branch main has no upstream branch.
To push the current branch and set the remote as upstream, use

    git push --set-upstream origin main

To have this happen automatically for branches without a tracking
upstream, see 'push.autoSetupRemote' in 'git help config'.
```

Then, run the command

 `$ git push --set-upstream origin main`
 
**!** A bridge works both ways: Always push first and then pull to synchronize local and remote repository


```
Enter passphrase for key '/Users/seooh/.ssh/id_ed25519': 
Everything up-to-date
```

To fetch and download content from a remote repository and immediately update the local repository to match that content
`$ git pull`


**!** If you lost your local repository by accident, 
`git clone <SSH repo>`


<<<<<<< HEAD
### Changes in the file, to see problems when both collaborator are working on the same time
=======

Random changes
>>>>>>> efd5d96eb557d59f853d8e04900d86503822f71d

Commit message:

Trying to making changes in the collaborator files

commands_git.md, after:

# Commands from Git

###  I. Basic routine for commiting


That is how I save a snapshot/point in time

```
git add <name of the file>
git commit -m "meaningful msg"
```

### II. How to check the status of my files/directories in my git project

`$ git status` tells you
- master/main
- Untracked files
- see things are happening
- Changes to be committed, changes not staged (developing area, working on it before), Untracked files (= completely new)
- `$ git restore` discards changes in working directory e.g. if you regret about changes you have made, let the changes exit from the stagin area and discard changes

Check if they are uncommitted, unstaged or untracked

```
On branch main
Changes not staged for commit:
  (use "git add <file>..." to update what will be committed)
  (use "git restore <file>..." to discard changes in working directory)
        modified:   Dictionary_git.md

Untracked files:
  (use "git add <file>..." to include in what will be committed)
        vib.png
```

### III. Commiting without -m
If you try `$ git commit` without -m, It might give an error.

Change editor to get it back to vi
`$ git config --global --unset-all core.editor`

If you do `$ git commit` again, you will open the config file via vi editor
- In the opened file, you can add text for the title of the new commit


### IV. At staging area: Add together files that you want to commit together

- git all files `$ git add *`

- git all pdf files `$ git *.pdf`

- `$ git add <pattern>.*`

- `$ git add file1 file2` 


### V. Exercises: Knowing my timeline
A. How can I travel within the timeline to check for differences in my versions? 
- by `$ git diff`, you can compare the differences between the current version and previous version (the last time you committed). 
    - `$ git diff <commit id1> <commit id2>` 
    - The order of the commits matters +/-
    - Show changes between different states	Compare working dir, staged, or commits	Line-by-line file changes
- Or, `$ git show` is similar to `$ git diff` but shows the differences with more details
    - `$ git show <commit id1> <commit id2>`, you will see a merged comparativer version printed

B. How can I see the history of my timeline? 
- by `$ git log` it shows history of commits from HEAD -> main/master (HEAD: the most updated version)
- or `$ git log --abbrev-commit` with abbreviated version of commit ID
- View commit history	Listing commits	Commit metadata (author, message, date)


In summary:

- git log is for viewing commit history.
- git diff is for viewing file differences.
- git show is for inspecting a specific commit or object.

### VI. Linking the local repository to remote repository

1. Create a bridge and then check the status of the current Git
```
$ git remote add origin git@github.com:seoyeonoh12/my_git_tutorial.git
$ git status
```
Expected output:
```
On branch main
nothing to commit, working tree clean
```
2. `$ git push`: sending the local repos. to remote repos. 
If you "push" for the first time, it will give an error with the following message:
```
fatal: The current branch main has no upstream branch.
To push the current branch and set the remote as upstream, use

    git push --set-upstream origin main

To have this happen automatically for branches without a tracking
upstream, see 'push.autoSetupRemote' in 'git help config'.
```

Then, run the command

 `$ git push --set-upstream origin main`
 
**!** A bridge works both ways: Always push first and then pull to synchronize local and remote repository


```
Enter passphrase for key '/Users/seooh/.ssh/id_ed25519': 
Everything up-to-date
```

To fetch and download content from a remote repository and immediately update the local repository to match that content
`$ git pull`


**!** If you lost your local repository by accident, 
`git clone <SSH repo>`

Trying to making changes in the branch of the collaborators
